New Web Developer: Sencha Touch, Bootstrap, and Bootstrap – Where Do I Begin?

Have you heard of Sencha Touch yet?  If you’re a mobile app developer,
make sure you check this out because it allows you to create apps for
several platforms including iOS, Android and Blackberry. It provides a 
native look and feel using javascript, but it does take some time to learn. 

According to their website, "Sencha Touch is the leading MVC-based JavaScript 
framework for building cross-platform mobile web applications. Sencha Touch leverages 
hardware acceleration techniques to provide high-performance UI components for mobile devices”. 
This means that Sencha will be able to create Native looking themes using HTML5 and Javascript, 
but work for many different platforms.  
There are over a 100 pre-built UI components that can speed up development 
which is similar to Kendo and Bootstrap.This product isn’t free, but over 60% of Fortune 
100 are Sencha customers.  Sencha has investors from Sequoia Capital, Radar Partners and 
Icon Ventures, and the company is based in Redwood City, California.  
Kendo UI, owned by Progress Software Corporation and supported and partnered with HP 
Helion Development platform, Office 365 Development platform and SAP partner which also
provides 75+ HTML5 Jquery widgets.  There is a development certification for Kendo along 
with a lot of support and learning documentation which is similar to bootstrap and Sencha.  
They all include examples, tutorials, etc.  Bootstrap is the only platform that is free, and
Sencha and Kendo requires payment.
Kendo’s goal is similar to Sencha - to give you the developer the tools
to develop web applications using pre-built UI-components for cross platforms. 
Both Sencha and Kendo UI both integrate with Angular.  
Bootstrap, the most famous HTML 5 framework’s goal is to build
responsive mobile apps from mobile-first designs.  It uses HTML5, CSS3 and 
Javascript components.  According to insight’s article, “This framework was 
developed by Mark Otto and Jacob Thornton at Twitter and released as an open 
source in August 2011 on Github. By June 2014 it was the most accessed 
project onGithub.”  This framework is the easiest to learn and use compared 
to the other two apps because you only need to know HTML and CSS to learn this 
framework, while the other frameworks require knowledge of Angular which takes 
some time to learn.  Bootstrap is free to use, while the other frameworks charge
a fee. Whether you’re a novice or have a lot of experience in the world of web
development, my advice is to start with HTML5 and then to move to bootstrap,
Angular and then to try out Sencha and Kendo.  
